## 531. Should You Switch From Node to Deno?

<strong><em>no description</em></strong>

<v Instructor>So it's time for a comparison,</v> which one is better? 

Well, as you saw since we built both dummy APIs, there aren't too many
differences but of course there are some small differences which of course can
also be tricky to wrap your head around. 

If you would compare the code though, it's really not too different and that's a
good thing. 

It means that switching from Node to Deno will be easy. 

Of course, also the other way around though. 

There are some core differences in the philosophies, of course. 

The permission thing is an important difference. 

The fact that Deno embraces modern JavaScript and TypeScript out of the box so
that you don't need to bring any extra tools or opt into extra experimental
features that of course also can be very nice. 

That being said though, Deno overall of course is still pretty new. 

If we compare Deno to Node, then we of course have all those different features.


We of course have the different philosophies also because Deno is simply more
modern than Node, it's way newer. 

But we also have one other key difference which is a disadvantage for Deno. 

And that's the fact that it is very new. 

Because of that, it can offer all those shiny new features. 

It has all those cool features built in, but of course it also means we have no
big ecosystem that we certainly still have bugs in there that we will see
changes to some of the core libraries and modules that we don't know which
third-party modules will survive and which ones won't. 

And that overall, it's not really getting used by any production applications or
bigger companies. 

Node on the other hand, certainly doesn't have all those shiny features built in
and it has a different philosophy when it comes to permissions and when it comes
to the modules system where you have to install everything locally. 

But for one, of course you might prefer that so that might not even be a
disadvantage. 

And in addition, even if you prefer Deno's approach, you still of course have
the huge advantage for Node that it is mature and established, that we have no
real major bugs in there, that it has a very strong ecosystem, that it's
actively maintained by a lot of contributors, that we have thousands of
third-party packages which we can use with Node that help you solve any problem
you could face along the way, and that is of course getting used by thousands of
companies and developers out there. 

You not only find more resources on Node, you'll also find more jobs and
employers. 

And personally, I think it's unlikely that a lot of companies will now start
replacing Node with Deno. 

Some might, but certainly not all and probably not right now. 

So, when it comes to deciding which one you should continue with, it comes down
to which features matters to you. 

Which style do you prefer? 

Is that permission thing important to you? 

Do you like the URL imports instead of local installations? 

Or do you maybe prefer Node's approach? 

But besides that, the maturity in the ecosystem should also matter to you. 

And there, as I said, Deno is very new and very immature so of course here we
have a lot of advantages on Node's side. 

So my recommendation would be that, at the moment at least, you look into Deno,
you play around with it but you mainly use it for side and dummy projects. 

And it's really important to realize and keep in mind that Node is established
and it's not going to go anywhere. 

So even if Deno is going to become bigger, learning Node will never be wrong. 

You would be able to switch to Deno easily so even if you need to do that, it
won't be hard. 

But chances are high that Node is not just not going anywhere today, but also
tomorrow. 

It's getting used by so many large companies. 

It has this established ecosystem, it has a proven track record. 

And the disadvantages of Node, which are being fixed by Deno, simply might not
matter too much to you. 

So what you'll learn in this course is everything but obsolete. 

It's completely up to date and more important than ever before. 

Deno is a nice alternative which is worth exploring and hopefully this module
got you started with it, but it's not like you should start replacing everything
with Deno now immediately. 

That is certainly not the case, and that might never be the case. 

---