## 232. The Current Project Status

<strong><em>no description</em></strong>

If you download the attached project snapshot which is my latest snapshot, you
will see some differences there, so you should download it and what did I change
and of course you can also go ahead and just implement these changes in your
project. 

Well I commented out my links to the add product and admin products pages in my
navigation.ejs file and I added a new unordered list after the first one and
there I added a new list item which is named login. 

And then I also worked on the styles a bit and most importantly in the styles, I
had changed my main header nav to be of type display flex, header width of 100%
and justify content space between but again you find these files attached to
this video. 

Now this leads to a setup where two navigation items are missing but the login
button was added and it's on the right here due to that space between thing. 

Now why did I add this? 

Because I want to have some dummy login page. 

We'll have a complete module on authentication where we dive deeper into all
that is related to authenticating but here authentication is a great example for
data you would want to store for a specific user and that is one of the typical
use cases for using cookies and sessions hence I want to use some dummy
authentication in this module already. 

So what can we do with that? 

Well with that login button, we navigate if we have a look at navigation.ejs, we
navigate to  /login and that is a route which does not exist yet, we got no
routes for logging in or signing up or anything like that. 

So I want to add this and if you don't want to practice this, again if that's
not interesting to you, you can simply skip the next video, you can skip it and
download the finished adjustments, the finished code after that next video so
that you can continue with that. 

So in the next video, we'll implement that login screen, it's a great practice
for you, you can also try it on your own before diving into my lecture where we
do it together. 

And if you want to continue with cookies, immediately you skip the next lecture,
you download the finished code and continue with that. 

---