## 541. Course Roundup

<strong><em>no description</em></strong>

Amazing job, you made it through the entire course and that means you learned a
lot about node and the many ways you can use it to build exciting web
applications or any kind of application that needs to execute some code really. 

I hope you enjoyed the course and the obvious question is how should you now
continue? 

Well in general, the most important thing I always recommend is that you keep on
practicing, build example projects, clone popular apps, build your own
simplified facebook clone, strip out some features you don't want to focus on
and instead build some parts of that application you picked. 

Build the messaging part, build the newsfeed part, anything like that,
practicing is important and the most important thing there is that you will face
issues. 

You'll hit some problems, there will be things what you want to build where you
don't know how to continue or you don't know how it works and this is then the
part where you need to dig in, where you need to research. 

Search on Stack Overflow, find blog posts on Google that help you and dig
through that problem on your own, this will make you a better developer and it
will help you learn how things work internally and how you can approach certain
problems and solve them, this is the most important part really. 

Now also dive into other concepts related to nodejs. 

Dive into APIs like rest API or graphql, learn more about these technologies,
build example projects there too, dive into serverless technologies and to
serverless services, I got a course on that but you can also just google for
nodejs serverless and you'll find some great resource there because that is also
a very promising interesting way of creating node applications as you will
learn, you focus way more on your logic and way less on the overhead of spinning
up a server and so on,. 

so really interesting. 

And maybe also dive into frontend development, learn how to build a react app
like the one I gave you in this course from scratch, that could be a great next
step too because it will make you a full stack developer who can do both,
backend development and frontend development. 

And these are just some of the possibilities you have, obviously as you practice
you'll dive into more things that are interesting to you and to your exact
requirements and things that are interesting to you and I'm confident that this
course gave you pretty solid fundamentals that allow you to build up on to dive
way deeper. 

---