## 6. Course Outline

<strong><em><p>We got a good idea of what Node.js is, now it's time to understand what exactly is in the course. In this lecture, I'll give you a good overview of the course content and the order in which it is presented.</p></em></strong>

Now that we had a look at the basics about Nokia's, what we can do with it, and
now that we even used it, let me walk you through the content of this course and
explain what's in the course and where you can find what we're almost done
getting started. 

And the next module, I will give you a brief JavaScript refresher just to make
sure we're all on the same page regarding the core JavaScript syntax, but more
importantly about some next gen JavaScript features which will use in the
course. 

Basic JavaScript knowledge is assumed and will not be taught in that module, but
if you just need a refresher, some additional information or this next gen
JavaScript knowledge, then this is a module you should take. 

Otherwise it's optional. 

Now, after this refresher or immediately after this module, if you don't need a
refresher, we'll dive into the Node.js basics, how it generally works, how we
can work with streams of data and some core Node.js modules. 

So really the nitty gritty details you need to know about the the language, so
to say. 

And we'll then dive into efficiently developing with Node.js, how you can debug
your code, handle errors and so on. 

Now thereafter we'll dive into express JS the most popular framework you can use
for Node.js. 

I'll explain why we use it and why we still in its heart use Node.js, why we
still learn about Node.js, even though we use express to us. 

Because using it makes sense, it makes things easier. 

You will use it if you are working with no trace. 

But still, of course we still use Node.js with all of that. 

Now thereafter we'll dive into templating engines that are basically some tools
you could say that allow you to generate HTML pages on the server with dynamic
content encoded in them. 

And that is how you can return different pages or pages with different content
back to your users. 

So that will be an important module. 

Now thereafter we'll dive into the model view controller pattern, what it is and
why we use it, and of course how we use it. 

And we'll then have a look at some advanced routing concepts. 

Routing is something we'll also learn in the Express JS module and we'll dive
deeper into the models of the model view controller pattern. 

Now after we're done with that, it's time to dive into databases and we'll start
by connecting our node application with a SQL database. 

My SQL, to be precise. 

As a next step, we'll dive deeper into that and use a package that makes working
with SQL databases easier. 

Scalise, now in after having seen SQL, will continue with no SQL and see how we
would use that. 

And we'll use Mongoose there to also make working with that easier and will then
stick to no SQL for the rest of the course. 

But you'll thoroughly learn both SQL and no SQL. 

Now after this, we'll dive into sessions and cookies, what it is, why you use
it, and how you use it. 

We'll have a look at authentication. 

So how we can make sure that users can sign up and sign in with our application.


We'll dive into sending emails, how that would work. 

How can we auto generate emails when a user signs up, for example, we'll also
dive into advanced authentication features and also authorization, which means
that, for example, only a user who created a product can edit or delete. 

It will then have a look at user input validation, which is a crucial part in
any web application, because you want to make sure that the data your users
enter into your forms is correct and valid, and you'll learn how you can do that
efficiently in this module. 

And we'll then dive into error handling because errors will happen, for example,
if the user enters wrong input. 

And I will show you how you can handle different kinds of errors in an elegant
way. 

Now thereafter, we'll dive into something important, file up and downloads. 

How can you handle these? 

How can you write code that takes incoming files, stores them and is able to
return files? 

I'll also show you how you can automatically generate PDF documents on the
server in this module. 

Well then have a look at pagination so how we can return our data in chunks
instead of all the data at once, which is not ideal for your bandwidth. 

We'll thereafter have a look at async request and I'll explain what that is and
how we can handle it with no charges. 

And we'll then dive into payments. 

How can we accept payments through a service called Stripe? 

JS Obviously something will need in any shop we build. 

And thereafter we'll dive into a different kind of application you can build
with no trace. 

We'll dive into rest APIs. 

And one module does not sound like a lot of content on this very important
technology, but actually I got two modules on that and we'll also dive into file
uploads and rest APIs, authentication, pagination and all that stuff. 

And additionally, these modules will build up on the entire modules before that
because you will learn that the rest API does not differ that much from a normal
node application, and I will show you in detail which knowledge you still need
and how you need to change some things. 

Not that many actually, to turn an existing application into a rest API now. 

And once we're done with that, I will dive into a more modern JavaScript feature
async await and how you can use that in your node application and we'll dive
into web sockets and socket. 

I o this is a technology or a set of technologies that allows you to add real
time functionalities to your app. 

So for example, if one user sends a message and you instantly want to notify
another user, you can use web sockets for that. 

And I will show how it works in this module. 

After this module, we'll dive into a different kind of APIs. 

We had a look at rest APIs. 

We'll then have a look at GraphQL APIs. 

GraphQL is a very modern and popular way of building APIs. 

It has some advantages over rest APIs, also some disadvantages. 

And I will dive into GraphQL and how it differs from rest APIs in this module,
and I will show you how to build a GraphQL API from scratch with no charges. 

And this will be quite a big module, even though it's only one block on this
slide. 

Now thereafter we'll have a look at deployment. 

How can you take your application? 

You build all your node code you build, how can you take that and move it to a
real server in the web and ensure that it runs there? 

This will be shown there. 

There. 

I'll also dive into things like setting up SSL encryption and once we're done
with that, I'll have a short module on Node JS functionalities beyond creating
web servers with it because you can use it for other things too, as I will
mention there. 

And then I also got a couple of bonus modules which I actually added after this
course was initially released because I'm keeping this course updated and I
added sections on Node.js with TypeScript and also sections on Deano, which is a
Node.js alternative by the original creator of Node. 

And whilst Node is of course the big important JavaScript runtime which is there
to stay, Deno could be a nice alternative you also might want to look into and
therefore I got some introductory modules at the end of this course as well. 

Well, and thereafter we're going to conclude this with a round up and with some
possible next steps you could take. 

And therefore I'd say this course is packed with content. 

Let's conclude this first getting started module and let's dive in. 

---