## 7. How To Get The Most Out Of The Course

<strong><em><p>Your course success matters to me, hence in this lecture, I'll share some best practices regarding the course taking process and how you can get the most out of this course.</p></em></strong>

So now that you learned what's inside this course a whole lot as you can see,
let me explain to you how you can get the most out of this course because this
is really important to me, I want to make sure that you learned a lot. 

Now obviously you want to watch the videos, now that seems pretty obvious but
this is a video on-demand course. 

Watch the videos at your speed, this is really important. 

You can use the playback controls here on Udemy to finetune the speed, speed me
up if I'm going too slow, reduce the speed a bit if I'm going too fast, also
make sure to occasionally jump back to older sections or videos. 

This is a normal process in learning, sometimes you need to reiterate concepts
you learned before, you want to use that on-demand nature of the course. 

You don't have to go at the speed I'm going, you don't have to go lecture by
lecture and then never go back, use the tools you got here, use the course to
its fullest potential and use the on-demand nature. 

In this course, we will also build projects and you will find a lot of exercises
and assignments. 

I encourage you to do these, of course you can also just watch me code and just
watch my solutions to the assignments but you will learn way more if you try to
solve these things on your own and if you actively code along. 

Now one important note for this is of course that you want to do that also at
your speed and by well of course also following along the videos but also make
sure to Google for problems if you hit any, not because I don't want to help
you, I will help you if you need help but because this makes you a better
learner. 

You need to be able to solve your problems on your own and I see too many
students who have to ask first, research later mentality and this is not really
that great for you, this makes me learn it better because I get challenged a lot
which is great but you should learn more ultimately. 

So definitely try to solve your problems on your own, it will help you a lot. 

Also use all the course resources you find in there, that's not just the videos,
that's also the attached source code which you find attached to the last lecture
of each module which you can use to compare to your code if you're facing any
problems and again this is a great way of solving problems on your own by
comparing the solutions and finding out what went wrong on your own. 

So use all these resources, also make sure to use the additional links I
occasionally post in some lectures where you can research a bit more about
certain topics and dive a bit deeper in cases where you're interested in that
topic. 

Now last but not least, this course like all Udemy courses has a Q & A section,
you can post questions, on every video there is a Q & A button at the bottom of
the video or in the course dashboard, the general Q & A section and you can
search there, make sure to also search to Q & A before you post, often a
question has already been answered but you can also post there if you got a
question. 

Now the thing about asking is asking is easy, answering is hard, so try helping
others too. 

Take this opportunity of answering to questions of other students, simply
because you again get challenged and if you're wrong, that doesn't matter,
you'll be corrected and you'll learn again but you will learn so much by being
forced to think about a problem, articulate a solution and best of all, you also
help students. 

So help each other, I will also help you of course but if you do all these
things, you'll get a lot out of this course, promised. 

But with that, let's leave this first module and continue with the course. 

---