## 206. Wrap Up

<strong><em>no description</em></strong>

In this module we had to look at NoSQL and especially mongodb of course. 

Now NoSQL databases, mongodb is just an alternative to SQL databases, it follows
a different philosophy. 

You have no strict schemas which you do have in SQL and you have fewer
relations, you don't split your data across dozens of tables instead you work
with things like embedding data or using some references or even mixing the two
concepts as you saw in this module too, so in general you've got way more
flexibility and since you can store the data in the format you are fetching it
in, you often can write a bit simpler queries because data already has the
format you need it in. 

When working with mongodb, you should use the official mongodb driver and then
you got a lot of useful commands like insert one, find, update one, delete one
and so on which make all these crud operations, crud stands for create, read,
update and delete very simple. 

Now check out the official docs or my full mongodb course to learn all about the
available operations, how you can configure them, which operators like $in which
you saw in this module, so all these things which you can use. 

You can learn about that because indeed mongodb offers enough content for an
entire course and this is of course not the idea behind this course, it should
stay a nodejs course. 

Now it's also worth pointing out that all the operations are promise based and
therefore creating more complex chains as we did it where you have this first
command and then the second command is pretty easy and also pretty easy to read.


So overall NoSQL in mongodb is very popular especially in combination with
nodejs because you work with javascript objects anyways and because it's very
fast and therefore it's definitely worth checking out and I will also stick to
mongodb for the rest of this course, though I also want to mention that you can
of course use MySQL. 

Ultimately it always depends on your preferences and the requirements of your
application and there is a large gray area where neither of the two is wrong to
use. 

---